# Illizarov-Distraction-Osteogenesis

Leg Length Discrepancy (LLD) is a medical condition in which the paired lower extremity limbs have noticeably unequal lengths. LLDs can occur due to a variety of reasons – genetic conditions affecting growth, growth plate infections, tumors, fractures that occur through growth plate, radiation treatment from cancer etc. LLDs can be corrected by different methods but the most preferred medical procedure is by lengthening the shorter limb. A surgical osteotomy is done at the bone site where distraction is intended to be performed. An external fixator surrounding the limb to be distracted is used to gradually lengthen the affected bone. 

My team and I have developed an external fixation device, which can perform precise amounts of distraction at regular intervals. We have used a novel control algorithm called “Experience Mapped Predictive Controller” (EMPC) which has been developed in our lab for precise motor position control. This control algorithm has been shown to work better than conventional control algorithms like PD and adaptive control algorithms like MRAC as shown in this paper -https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6388869 

EMPC is inspired by the human’s ability to predict a certain behaviour based on a past experience. It has also drawn inspiration from the human’s ability to correct their predictions by taking into consideration the various external factors which tend to result in deviations from predicted behaviours. A low power system has been developed, which provides a user friendly interface with any Smart Phone, using which the doctor can set various parameters including rate of distraction, rhythm of distraction, total amount of distraction etc. The system also logs the progress of the distraction procedure. The system is equipped with an emergency stop button which when pressed, aborts the distraction process.
